by rational or emotional
 appeal. It also influences the pe
ople to act in a particular way as well as to develop 
a belief.
 CONCEPT OF ADVERTISING
 The word advertising is derived from its Latin root 
ad verter 
, which means ‚to turn outwards™
 or ‚to attract 
attention to™. Advertising in a broader sense comprises all
 those activities which are
 directed towards
 drawing attention. This may include publicity stunts for the product, an event
 geared towards product
 promotion, a press note applauding the brand, a coupon doled out with a
 complementary product, a mail sent 
out detailing product features and the like. Some of the
 common definitions of advertising are:
 According to 
Arenes advertising is the non
-personal communication of information usually paid
 for & usually persuasive 
in nature, about products (goods & services
) or ideas by identified
 sponsor through various media. (Arenes 
,1996).
 Blech and Blech define advertising as any paid form of non
-personal communication about an
 organisation, 
product, service, or idea from an identified sponsor. (Blech & Blech, 1998).
  Another definition is given by 
Wells, Burnett and Moriaty. According to them advertising is
 paid non
-personal communication from an 
identified sponsor using mass media to persuade and
 influence an audience. (Wells, Burnett, & 
Moriaty,1998).
 Bearden, Ingram 
and Laforge have defined advertising as the element of the marketing
 communication mix 
that is non personal, paid for by an identified sponsor, & disseminated
 through channels of mass 
communication to promote the adoption of goods, services, persons or
 ide
as. (Bearden, Ingram, & Laforge 
,1998).
 The next definition is given by Zikmund and D™amico. They say that advertising is an
 informative or 
persuasive message carried by a non personal medium and paid for by an
 identified sponsor whose 
organization or prod
uct is identified in some way (Zikmund and
 D™amico ,1999).
 Impersonal one way communication about a product or organization that is paid by a marketer is
 advertising
. This is one more definition stated by Lamb, Hair & McDaniel (2000).
 Baren, S.J. (1999) ke
eping in view many kinds of commercial messages defined advertising as
 mediated 
messages paid for by and identified with a business or institution that seeks to increase
 the likelihood that 
those who consume those messages will act or think as the 
advertiser
 wishes(Baren, S.J., 1999) .
 The American Marketing Association has defined advertising as any form of non
-personal
 presentation of 
goods, services or ideas for action, openly paid for by an identified sponsor.
  CHARACTERISTICS OF ADVERTISING
 On 
the basis of these definitions the major characteristics of advertising can be drawn. These are:
   The fact that it is ‚a paid form™ of presentation emphasizing that advertising space or time
 must be 
purchased. This means that advertising is openly paid f
or. If for an
 advertisement, the sponsor is not 
identified and it has not been paid for the use of the
 media in which it has appeared, then the message is to 
be considered as publicity not
 advertisement.
  Its ‚non personal nature emphasizes the fact that 
it is not a direct or personalized
 presentation. 
‚Presentation signifies the format in which advertisements communicate. It
 might be a sign, a symbol, an 
illustration, an ad message in a magazine or news paper, a
 commercial on the radio or on television. A
 circular dispatched through the mail, a
 pamphlet handed out at the street corner, a sketch or a message on a 
billboard or a 
poster can
 also be called advertising.
  ‚Promotion indicates the objective of advertising. It may be to inform, persuade
, remind 
or reinforce 
depending on the phase of the brand or product category.
   ﬁIdentified sponsor™ refers to the identification of the brand or the advertiser who is
 communicating. The 
Post and Telegraph Department advertisement may promote the use
 of the Pin Co
de for faster delivery of 
 letters.
 Advertising is a form of communication rather a mass communication which is used to persuade
 an 
audience to action with respect to products, ideas, or services. The desired result is to drive
 consumer 
behavior with respe
ct to a commercial offering, although political and ideological
 advertising is also 
common. Advertising is perhaps the best channel of mass communication for
 sellers and firms for selling 
their products throughout the country as well as in other countries 
of the world, because the sellers and the 
marketers, they know the power of advertising. Although
 advertising promotes the sale of goods , services, 
images and ideas through persuasions but one
 thing everyone should remember is that Advertising is a 
persua
sive communication which helps
 for selling the products but it cannot be panacea for restoring poor 
the quality products and for
 rejuvenating the declining market.
  GOALS OR OBJECTIVES OF ADVERTISING
 The development of an advertising program is to be 
started by identifying the target market and
 the buyers™ 
motives. After that the marketing managers are required to make five major decisions
 commonly known as 
ﬁthe Five Msﬂ. These are :
  Mission 
which means what are the advertising objectives?
  Money 
i.e., how much can be spent?
  Message 
means what message should be communicated?
  Media, 
what media should be used?
  And lastly 
Measurement 
which means how should the result be evaluated?
 The specific communication task and achievement level which are to 
be accomplished with a
 specific 
audience within a specific period of time are known as objectives.
  Every advertisement or advertising 
campaign should have clearly defined objectives. In fact
 objectives emerge out of a firm™s overall marketing 
strategy and
 promotion objectives assigned
 to advertising. If a marketing manager says ﬁPromote the 
Productﬂ, it is not enough. The
 objectives of advertising have to be more specific than the objectives of 
personal selling. Each
 advertisement has to be effective not 
just for one customer but for thousands and 
millions of
 them. Advertising has mainly four goals 
- to inform, persuade, remind, and to reinforce. Let us
 look at all these goals one by one.
   Inform: 
Informative advertising is mostly used in the introductor
y stage of the product or
 product 
category or service. Its intention is to extend maximum information. The
 introductory information enables 
the consumer to know what the product is, where it
 would be available, and what problems it would solve. 
The introdu
ction is alluded by
 words like 
presents 
or 
new 
in the textual message of the advertisement.
   Persuade: 
People buy a product if they are induced. Now this idea becomes more
 important if a product 
grows and faces increasing competition. Here comparative
 advertising becomes more relevant to establish 
the superiority of a particular brand and
 also to evaluate the brands of competitors™ directly or indirectly. 
Persuasion makes it
 clear as to how and why a particular brand is better than competitors™ claim with
 respect
 to satisfaction of the consumers™ needs.
    Remind: 
If a product has been introduced effectively and has attained the rapid growth
 phase and finally 
Œ maturity, advertising should be aimed at reminding the audience
 about the existence of the 
product. At the 
stage of maturity, most of the people know
 about the product, what it does, what are its benefits, and how it 
is different from the
 competitors' product. Also at this stage not many consumers can be persuaded. 
Therefore
 at this stage it bec
omes necessary for the advertiser to remind the consumers about the
 existence 
of the product and then it will be available to them, when they need it. To
 remind the consumers the 
advertiser can reinforce the central message side by side with
 creative ad ex
ecution to translate it into 
product liking.
  Reinforce: 
To convince the current consumers that they have chosen the right product or
 service the 
advertiser is required to use reinforcement advertising. In this type of
 advertising the key benefits of the 
product and the satisfied consumers are depicted to
 communicate to the current consumers that they have 
spent their money for the right
 product.
 The objectives of the advertising should be framed after a thorough 
analysis of the current
 market situation. I
f the product is at the stage of maturity, the organization is the 
market leader
 and there is low usage of the product than to stimulate for higher usage should be the
 objective of
 the advertising. If the product category is low and company is not the mark
et leader, although
 the brand is superior to its competitor, then to convince the audience about the superiority of the
 product 
should be the objective of advertising.
  TYPES OF ADVERTISING
 Keeping in view the purpose of and the target market, advertising 
can be classified into various
 categories. 
These are:
  1. Institutional and corporate advertising: 
Institutional and corporate advertising focuses on
 establishing 
the identity of the institution or the corporate concern . The product of the
 organization is
 brand. Here the 
nature of the advertising is usually brand building.
 Depicting the production process, prices and the like, the 
advertisement aspires to build an
 environment of image, and customer friendly organization. In fact 
companies try to do
 somethi
ng more than just sell their products. They try to promote their names and
 reputations. If an organization has a good name among people then it becomes easier to sell
 its products or 
services. There are some organizations who intend to promote only their
 image, while there are others who 
sell their image at the same time that they sell their
 products.
  2. Trade or professional advertising: 
Trade or professional advertising aims to persuade
 retailers. They do 
not necessarily push the product or brand, rather
 they promote product
 issues of importance to the retailer 
very specifically the volume, marketing, support, profit
 potential, distribution plans and promotional 
opportunities. Trade advertising is targeted to
 channel members like distributors, wholesalers
, retailers etc. 
In reality manufacturers are
 required to sell their products to channel members before the product reaches 
consumers.
 Trade advertising tries to inform the channel members about the product and also encourages
 them to stock as well as to a
dvocate the product to consumers. Normally trade advertising is
 done through 
retail or trade magazines published by a particular organization or specific
 industry associations.
  3. Retail advertising: 
Retail advertising is executed by retailers. Most of 
the advertisements
 which we 
observe everyday focus on products which are local, reaching the end consumers
 where they live and shop. 
In fact retail advertising is aimed to create a distinct image of the
 store and more often triggering sales in 
short run th
at is the direct response. It is more
 informational showing the details of the outlet and its 
offerings. If a local merchant puts up a
 note on his blackboard that home delivery is being provided free of 
cost, it is an example of
 retail advertising for a re
tail store.
  4. Brand Building advertising: 
Brand Building advertising focuses on creating product
 awareness and 
building brand image. It is strategic in nature and long term in life.
   5. Tactical Advertising: 
Tactical Advertising is short to middle term 
and aims at a specific
 marketing 
problem that can be solved through the communication process. It is executed to
 inform consumers for a 
limited time offer. Information about a price change, rectification of
 a misconception etc., are communicated 
through th
is type of advertising. Direct response
 advertising is a typical type of tactical advertising. It is 
aimed to simulate a sale directly.
 Here the information including the offer is communicated directly to the 
consumer.
  6. National advertising: 
National ad
vertising aims to persuade the consumers of most parts of
 the country. 
The important condition for this type of advertising is that the product should be
 available nationally. 
National advertising is through media which have nationwide coverage
 like popula
r TV channels and 
nationally read news papers. The popular regional media with
 wide territorial coverage can also be used for 
this.
   
7. Advocacy advertising: 
Advocacy advertising aims to persuade consumers to take a stand for
 or against 
an issue.
  8. Industrial advertising: 
In Industrial advertising products and services are directed towards a
 particular 
industry. It is done through industry trade publications.
  9. Direct Marketing advertising: 
Direct Marketing advertising is aimed to approach likely
 buyers rather 
than all the consumers. The message is communicated to these consumers
 through direct mail, catalogue, 
and telemarketing. This is a personalized form of advertising.
  
10. Selective 
Œ demand advertising: 
Selective 
Œ demand advertising is concer
ned with building
 demand for 
a specific product. This happens in a situation where the product category has
 been satisfactorily well 
developed and the organizations focus on differentiating their
 individual brands with the help of selective 
demand advertis
ing. Here we can take the
 example of the later entrants in the fairness cream category which 
stressed more on this sort
 of advertising. The reasons for purchasing their brands were chemical free natural 
content,
 longer lasting fairness, sun protection, glo
wing complexion and fairness cum blemish
 removal etc.
  11. Business to business advertising: 
Business to business advertising is not directed to the end
 consumers. 
It persuades the institutional customers who do not buy for self consumption.
 Industrial goo
ds like raw 
materials like cotton, iron ore etc., manufactured materials like
 pumps, motors etc., capital equipment like 
cotton weaving machines, elevators etc. or
 business supplies and services like stationary, computers, 
accountancy and consultancy
 servi
ces fall in this category. Business to business advertising is quite
 technical in nature.
  12. Public service advertising: 
Public service advertising does not pursue to sell commercial
 products or 
services but promotes organizations and themes of 
importance to the public. It is
 for the cause of public 
good. Various associations or organizations produce or execute such
 advertisements to create public 
awareness. Family planning messages by Family Planning
 Association or antismoking messages 
by a 
gove
rnmental organization
 are examples of
 public service advertising.
  CONCLUSION
 So this was an account of the relationship between marketing and advertising, the concept and
 characteristics of advertisement its goal and its types. In a nut shell we can say t
hat advertising is
 multidimensional in nature. In some ways it is a form of mass communication, its a powerful
 marketing tool, 
its a component of the economic system, it is a means of financing mass media,
 a social institution, an art 
form, an instrument o
f business management, a profession, a field of
 employment, and above all a big 
business.
 
